well I see the fans up here and I see a
real opportunity to build a team up
Jim Barnett again for warriors calm
we'll be discussing Jerry West and his
basketball career something that he
doesn't really like to talk about he
likes to deflect all the attention but
how can you deflect attention from a man
who was known as mr. clutch and he is
the icon the logo for NBA basketball you
keep your space your very private person
very humble person particularly in
regard to what you've accomplished in
the NBA first you have to look at as a
player an NBA champion a Finals MVP the
scoring champion of the league an
all-nba first team selection ten times a
12-time all-star 14 times the 14-time
all-star pardon me for all 14 years
right but you know the 50 greatest
players of all time one of those how did
that come about and knowing because I
remember even though you had a great
college career in the book you mentioned
you know you weren't even sure you were
good enough to play in the NBA but yet
you were the second pick overall and the
rest is history
I think the thing that always drove me
was that if you strive to be the best
you always gonna push yourself you're
always gonna have loftier goals and
other people and for some reason I was
just born competitive it wasn't
something that I worked on it was just
me and when I came into the league the
one thing I didn't want to do I didn't
want to fail but I really didn't know
what kind of player I could be I really
didn't and even though I was drafted
second at that time in my mind I was
always not one of those self-assured
person I had to prove myself and I think
when I first came here I'm first couple
practice I came to I said to myself my
gosh I don't belong here and it took me
probably about three weeks all of a
sudden I said you know I can't played
with these guys and my college coach
came to Los Angeles with me and he
wanted to bring me along slowly and of
course I was antsy to play and
felt that maybe I was better than the
players that played ahead of me but he
wanted to give everyone a chance because
it's his first time coaching in the NBA
and it was until midseason when our team
wasn't playing very well that he started
starting me and we changed our backcourt
completely and we started winning and we
started being much more competitive and
I always felt that every game I got a
little bit better I got a little bit
more confident both some of these names
you'd read about in the newspapers oh my
gosh you know I know he's gonna
embarrass me or humiliate me and all of
a sudden I would stand in front of him
and I knew that they weren't any better
than that one and then particularly
physically I felt I had a huge edge and
as you go along and the season went
along and you start accomplishing things
not only personally but from a team
standpoint you do feel like that's you
belong with me I was never going to put
myself to position I could mentally
decide was better than anything else but
I knew after a while that if I competed
at my top level and if I was every night
I went out there focused and playing
that I was going to do fine but I played
out of the fear of failure I didn't want
to fail and it's something that even to
this day you know people ask you how can
you how can that be positive welcome me
it was my motivator and I think I got to
the point in my career where his nights
I felt like I had a huge advantage it's
a really powerful feeling but it was
really something I would never let
anyone know because I think sometimes
it's almost demeaning to say that and I
think when you compete the thing you
want to do is to win at the end the day
if you are an individual that
accomplishes the high level that's all
well and good because you're going to
help your team win but as I said I was
very fortunate that I had that
competitive desire and I wouldn't want
to lose it you know I think the great
teams obviously have great players but
sometimes it's just it's a combo it's
two of them you know Jordan and Pippen
and kuusi and Russell finally worked out
to be Havlicek and and Bill Russell but
as I grew up in Southern
for you it was Baylor and West or Weston
Bayer whichever it may be and you now
have a bronze statue outside Staples
Center
do you think there should be one for
Elgin Baylor as well I said it that
night his in some way he's probably one
of the most awkward moments of my life
but I didn't plate it have a statue it's
not that's not who I am
and I remember that evening so well
because Elgin was sitting beside of me
and you know I got up there and said I
said you know it just doesn't seem quite
because we were not only tied together
at the hip but I loved him okay he was
such a great teammate one of the most
underrated players ever and for me to
have a chance to be around him I learned
so much from him that it's just amazing
how he conducted himself with the press
and with people how giving he was and
more importantly in private how really
was he wasn't someone who plates himself
above anyone else so it was an education
just for me to be around and watch him
play and some of the things he used to
do I said my gosh I just hope I can get
to the point where I can be half as good
as him people talk about the league
today but there's still one standard and
that's the little logo and you are the
icon Jerry West it's your profile how
did that come about back in 1969 one
time the NBA said that you know as a
urban thought but that that's who I
that's who was and so they they didn't
acknowledge it and no that was fine it
was fine with me because myself I knew
okay I knew because Walter Kennedy we
got old and it wasn't they didn't kick
me out because I was white they keep an
artist and an illustrator picked it out
because they returned to market the NBA
and they wanted a brand there were four
other four players the other three were
were great black players in the league
and they they started marketing League
club the league became possible and
that's was the thought behind it
and is something I never really wanted
to acknowledge because to me it's
awkward to talk about stuff like that
with all the great players and I've had
a number of people ask me you know once
they would change it it would be fine I
would have no problem with it because it
wasn't something I ever expected and it
was acknowledged in New York Times is a
big article about the man who did it
Walter Kennedy's son and it's something
I've always said if that's me I'm really
proud of it okay but I've never I feel
uncomfortable talking about